---
title: Books I Read in 2016
date: 2017-01-03 21:08 PST
tags: books
---

In 2016, I read 22 books. Only 3 of those 22 were fiction. I had a consistent clip of 1-3 per month, and managed to finish at least one book each month.

Highlights include:

- _The Laws of Simplicity_ by John Maeda: the first book I read this year was super interesting. In it, Maeda offers 10 laws for for balancing simplicity and complexity in business, technology, and design. By the end, he simplifies the book down to one law: "Simplicity is about subtracting the obvious, and adding the meaningful."
- _David Whitaker Painting_ by Matthew Sturgis: I had never heard of the artist [David Whitaker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Whitaker_(artist)) until I stumbled on this book at Half Price Books in Berkeley. He makes abstract paintings that combine lines and colors and gradients in fantastic ways. The cover sucked me in, and after flipping through a few pages I fell in love with his work and immediately bought the book. Check out his work on [his portfolio](http://www.davidwhitakerpaintings.com/portfolio_home.htm).
- _Libra_ by Don DeLillo: a fascinating account of all the forces (including internal ones) that pushed Lee Harvey Oswald into assassinating JFK. The book is fiction and includes plenty of embellishments from the author (especially internal dialog), but is based on real facts from Oswald's life and the assassination.
- _NOFX: The Hepatitis Bathtub and Other Stories_ by NOFX: a thoroughly entertaining history of the SoCal pop-punk band NOFX as told through various ridiculous stories from the members of the band themselves. It was perfect poolside reading in Cabo.
- _[Org Design for Design Orgs](https://orgdesignfordesignorgs.com/)_ by Peter Merholz & Kristin Skinner: This is basically a handbook for what I should be doing as the Head of Design at Optimizely. I can't overstate how useful this has been to me in my job. If you're doing any type of design leadership, I highly recommend it.
- _The Gift_, by Lewis Hyde: a very thought-provoking read about creativity and the tension between art and commerce. So thought-provoking that it provoked me into writing down my thoughts in my [last blog post](/2016/12/31/thoughts-on-the-gift/).

## Full List of Books Read

* _The Laws of Simplicity_ by John Maeda (1/3/16)
* _Although of Course You End up Becoming Yourself_ by David Lipsky (1/24/16)
* _Practical Empathy_ by Indi Young (2/1/16)
* _Time Out_ of Joint by Philip K. Dick (2/8/16)
* _A Wild Sheep Chase_ by Haruki Murakami (3/5/16)
* _Radical Focus: Achieving Your Most Important Goals with Objectives and Key Results_ by Christina Wodtke (3/21/16)
* _The Elements of Style_ by William Strunk Jr. and E.B. White (3/23/16)
* _Sprint: How to solve big problems and test new ideas in just 5 days_ by Jake Knapp, with John Zeratsky & Braden Kowitz (4/8/16)
* _David Whitaker Painting_ by Matthew Sturgis (4/18/16)
* _Show Your Work_ by Austin Kleon (5/8/16)
* _Nicely Said_ by Kate Kiefer Lee and Nicole Fenton (6/5/16)
* _The Unsplash Book_ by Jory MacKay (6/27/16)
* _Words Without Music: A Memoir_ by Philip Glass (July)
* _Libra_ by Don DeLillo (8/21/16)
* _How To Visit an Art Museum_ by Johan Idema (8/23/16)
* _101 Things I Learned in Architecture School_ by Matthew Frederick (9/5/16)
* _Intercom on Jobs-to-be-Done_ by Intercom (9/17/16)
* _Org Design for Design Orgs_ by Peter Merholz & Kristin Skinner (9/26/16)
* _NOFX: The Hepatitis Bathtub and Other Stories_ by NOFX with Jeff Alulis (10/23/16)
* _The User's Journey: Storymapping Products That People Love_ by Donna Lichaw (11/10/16)
* _Sharpie Art Workshop Book_ by Timothy Goodman (11/13/16)
* _The Gift_ by Lewis Hyde (12/29/16)
