---
title: Books Read 2018
date: 2019-01-03 16:26 PST
description: List of books I read in 2018.
tags: books
---


In 2018 I read 23 books, which is a solid 9 more than [last year's paltry 14](/2017/12/31/books-read-in-2017/), and 1 more than [2016](/2017/01/03/books-i-read-in-2016/)). I credit the improvement to the 4-month sabbatical I took in the spring. Not working really frees up time 😄

For the last 2 years I said I needed to read more fiction since I only read 3 in 2016 and 2 in 2017. So how did I do? I'm proud to say I managed to read 7 fiction books this year (if you can count _My Dad Wrote a Porno_ as "fiction"...). My reading still skews heavily to non-fiction, and specifically  design, but that's what I'm passionate about and it helps me professionally, so I'm ok with it.

I also apparently didn't finish any books in January or February. I thought this might have been a mistake at first, but when I looked back on that time I realized it's because I was wrapping things up at Optimizely, and reading both _Quicksilver_ by Neal Stephenson and _Story_ by Robert McKee at the same time, which are long books that took awhile to work through.

## Highlights

### Story: Substance, Structure, Style, and the Principles of Screenwriting

_by Robert McKee_

I've read next to nothing about writing stories before, but Robert McKee's primer on the subject is excellent. Even though I'm not a fiction author, I found his principles for writing compelling narratives valuable beyond just the domain of screenwriting.

### Handstyle Lettering

_Published and edited by Victionary_

There wasn't much to "read" in this book, but it was full of beautiful hand-lettered pieces that continue to inspire me to be a better letterer.

### The Baroque Cycle

_by Neal Stephenson_

Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle is a broad, staggering, 3-volume and 2,500+ page opus of historical science fiction, making it no small feat to complete (I read the first 2 this year, and am almost done with the 3rd volume). It takes place during the scientific revolution of the 17th and 18th centuries when the world transitioned out of feudal rule towards a more rational and merit-based society that we would recognize as modern. It weaves together a story between fictional and non-fictional characters, including Newton, Leibniz, Hooke, Wren, royalty, and other persons-of-quality. Although the series can be slow and byzantine at times, Stephenson makes up for it with his attention to detail and the sheer amount of research and effort he put into accurately capturing the time period and bringing the story to life. Even just having the audacity to put yourself in Newton's head to speak from his perspective, much less to do so _convincingly_, makes the series worth the effort.

### Good Strategy, Bad Strategy

_by Richard P. Rumelt_

Strategy is a fuzzy concept, but Rumelt makes it concrete and approachable with many examples of good and bad strategy. [Read my full notes here](/2018/06/27/notes-from-good-strategy-bad-strategy/). Highly recommended.

### Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life

_by Anne Lamott_

A great little meditation on the writing process (and life!), sprinkled with useful tips and tricks throughout.

### Creative Selection: Inside Apple's design process

_by Ken Kocienda_

Ken Kocienda was a software engineer during the "golden age of Steve Jobs," and provides a fascinating insight into the company's design process. I'm still chewing on what I read (and hope to publish more thoughts soon), but it's striking how different it is from any process I've ever seen at any company, and different from best practices written about in books. It's basically all built around Steve Jobs' exacting taste, with designers and developers demoing their work to Steve with the hope of earning his approval. Very difficult to replicate, but the results speak for themselves.

### Ogilvy on Advertising

_by David Ogilvy_

I hadn't read much about advertising before, but Ogilvy's book on the subject is great. It's full of practical advice on how to write compelling headlines and ads that sell. [Read my notes here](/2018/11/12/how-to-write-effective-advertisements-according-to-david-ogilvy/).

## Full List of Books Read

* _Story: Substance, Structure, Style, and the Principles of Screenwriting_ by Robert McKee (3/7/18)
* _The Color of Pixar_ by Tia Kratter (3/18/18)
* _Conversational Design_ by Erika Hall (3/27/18)
* _Quicksilver_ by Neal Stephenson (4/3/18)
* _Handstyle Lettering_ published and edited by Victionary (4/24/18)
* _Bimimicry: Innovation Inspired by Nature_ by Janine M. Benyus (5/4/18)
* _Design is Storytelling_ by Ellen Lupton (5/11/18)
* _Trip_ by Tao Lin (5/20/18)
* _Good Strategy, Bad Strategy: The Difference and Why it Matters_ by Richard P. Rumelt (5/27/18)
* _Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life_ by Anne Lamott (6/10/18)
* _The Inmates are Running the Asylum_ by Alan Cooper (6/13/18)
* _It Chooses You_ by Miranda July (6/13/18)
* _String Theory_ by David Foster Wallace (6/22/18)
* _Invisible Cities_ by Italo Calvino (6/28/18)
* _My Dad Wrote a Porno_ by Jamie Morton, James Cooper, Alice Levine, and Rocky Flintstone (7/1/18)
* _The User Experience Team of One_ by Leah Buley (7/8/18)
* _Change by Design_ by Tim Brown (9/3/18)
* _Darkness at Noon_ by Arthur Koestler (9/16/2018)
* _Creative Selection: Inside Apple’s design process during the golden age of Steve Jobs_ by Ken Kocienda (9/20/18)
* _The Confusion_ by Neal Stephenson (9/26/18)
* _How to Change Your Mind_ by Michael Pollan (10/27/18)
* _Ogilvy on Advertising_ by David Ogilvy (11/11/18)
* _Draft No. 4. On the writing process_ by John McPhee (11/14/18)
