---
title: Books Read 2019
date: 2020-01-22 21:49 PST
description: In 2019 I read 30 books, which is pretty good considering some were huge like The System of the World and The Power Broker. Also, I got married 🤵👰, and it turns out planning takes a ton of time. Other books, though, were glorified picture books, like Palette Perfect, so I guess it all evens out. It’s also 7 more books than I read last year, and more than double 2017.
tags: [books, "reading list"]
---

In 2019 I read 30 books, which is pretty good considering some were huge like _The System of the World_ and _The Power Broker_. Also, I got married 🤵👰, and it turns out planning takes a ton of time. Other books, though, were glorified picture books, like _Palette Perfect_, so I guess it all evens out. It's also 7 more books than I [read last year](/2019/01/03/books-read-2018/), and more than double [2017](/2017/12/31/books-read-in-2017/).

## Favorite Non-fiction

_The Power Broker_ by Robert Caro.

Hands down the best non-fiction book I've read. It took me a long time to work up the courage to start it since it's huge, but boy was it worth it. I was worried it would be dry since it's about the political maneuvering of Robert Moses, the NYC Parks Commissioner (among other titles) who shaped NYC, but Robert Caro is an excellent writer (and even better researcher), so the book has a strong narrative arc that pulls you through the story. He somehow turns a vote on a bill into _compelling drama_. If you've been interested in reading this book but are too intimidated to start like I was, then stop whatever you're reading now and start _The Power Broker_. You won't regret it. I loved it so much I've started his 5-part Lyndon B. Johnson biography.

## Favorite Fiction

_A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius_ by Dave Eggers.

This book is autobiographical and based on real events in Dave Eggers' life, but he calls it a work of fiction (and it's generally classified that way by libraries). This book is deeply moving and sad, but worthwhile. And that ending... oof.

## Favorite Design/Product Book

Tied between _Beauty_ by Sagmeister and Walsh, and _The Designer's Dictionary of Type_ by Sean Adams.

_Beauty_ made the argument that industrial design and architecture of the 20th century was overtaken by Bauhaus and "form follows function," at the expense of beauty. In other words, we valued objects and buildings being functional, and devalued beauty as frivolous "ornamentation." This book is an argument against this trend. People's lives and society can be improved by having more beauty in it. As a product designer, I got caught up in "form follows function" and not valuing beauty, and this book pushed me to re-evaluate that (which is part of the reason I visually updated my site recently).

_The Designer's Dictionary of Type_ gave me a deeper appreciation of typefaces, more so than any previous type book I've read. I'm not sure why, since this book follows a familiar format of grouping type into different families (serif, blackletter, script, etc.) and giving the history of the most famous typefaces in each category. But it may have been the right book at the right time. I've been doing hand lettering for the past couple of years, which got me to engage deeply with letters and their shapes and curves and forms, which may have magnified all the minor differences between each font that I had previously overlooked.

### Biggest Disappointments

_Play Bigger_. This talked about a lot of ideas I have seen batted around for awhile (specifically, being a "category defining company"), so it didn't feel particularly novel. Maybe that's because I'm a few years late to it. It also rang hollow because it basically says to create a category for your product, but then pays lip service to the fact that your product _actually has to be different enough to be a new category_. It also cites Apple and Facebook as examples throughout the book, but they are such wild outliers of success, and so many factors (many out of their control) contributed to their wild success, that citing them as examples is not particularly helpful or compelling evidence for why their ideas are correct or can be replicated. You know, survivor bias and all that.

The other disappointment was _The Messy Middle_. I didn't disagree with anything in this book, but I also didn't get anything new out of it. I've seen all these ideas in other books/articles/podcasts. It had a lot of vignettes of ideas about the creative process that weren't particularly deep, and didn't make me see anything in a new way.

## Full List

* _Sagmeister & Walsh: Beauty_ by Stefan Sagmeister and Jessica Walsh (1/1/19)
* _The System of the World_ by Neal Stephenson (1/6/19)
* _The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks and Win Your Inner Creative Battles_ by Steven Pressfield (1/8/19)
* _Thinking with Type: A Critical Guide for Designers, Writers, Editors, and Students_ by Ellen Lupton (1/11/19)
* _How To_ by Michael Bierut (2/3/19)
* _The Messy Middle_ by Scott Belsky (2/12/19)
* _Mad Men Carousel_ by Matt Zoller Seitz (2/19/19)
* _Company of One_ by Paul Jarvis (2/24/19)
* _The Secret Lives of Color_ by Kassia St. Clair (3/10/19)
* _The Designer's Dictionary of Type_ by Sean Adams (5/16/19)
* _The Power Broker_ by Robert Caro (6/3/19)
* _The Making of a Manager_ by Julie Zhou (6/17/19)
* _The Circle_ by Dave Eggers (7/6/19)
* _Bad Blood_ by John Carreyrou (7/14/19)
* _Working_ by Robert Caro (7/24/19)
* _Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of the World_ by Haruki Murakami (8/25/19)
* _Next Level Basic_ by Stassi Schroeder (8/26/19)
* _The Art of Noticing_ by Rob Walker (9/6/19)
* _On Writing_ by Stephen King (9/18/19)
* _The Medium is the Massage_ by Marshall McLuhan and Quentin Fiore (9/19/19)
* _Design Leadership: How Top Design Leaders Build and Grow Successful Organizations_ by Richard Banfield (10/6/19)
* _A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius_ by Dave Eggers (10/10/19)
* _Play Bigger_ by Christopher Lochhead, Al Ramadan, Dave Peterson, and Kevin Maney (10/23/19)
* _Palette Perfect_ by Lauren Wager (11/10/19)
* _Keep Going_ by Austin Kleon (11/11/19)
* _Salt Fat Acid Heat_ by Samin Nosrat (11/18/19)
* _In Progress_ by Jessica Hische (11/21/19)
* _The Decision Book_ by Mikael Krogerus and Roman Tschäppeler (11/24/19)
* _Ways of Seeing_ by John Berger (11/28/19)
* _Solar Lottery_ by Philip K. Dick (12/12/19)
